README.md, before:

# WAFI

WAFI is a repo-first workflow tool intended to help humans make sense of the jumble that “vibe coding” produces.

WAFI is not really an acronym:

- `W` / `F`: Workflow
- `A` / `I`: Alien Intelligence (NOT Artificial Intelligence)

The fact that it’s jumbled into `WAFI` is the point. It also nods affectionately at the nautical acronym, WAIF ("Wind Assisted Freaking Idiot"), a tongue-in-cheek term used by sailors for someone relying too much on wind power - here pointing at humans or agents relying too much on one another.

## Approach

This is an experimental project — expect rapid change. This section is intended to stay current as the workflow, tooling, and conventions morph.

### AI-Assisted Development

WAFI is designed around “agent + human” collaboration: agents propose changes, run constrained tasks, and keep a high-signal paper trail in the repo; humans review, steer, and ship.

For the detailed workflow (including how we structure agent work, track progress, and validate changes), see [`docs/dev/Workflow.md`](docs/dev/Workflow.md).

### Agent Personas + Guided Commands

We provide multiple agent personas intended to drive different development phases (exploration, implementation, review, release, etc.). Alongside that, we provide workflow-oriented commands that act as guardrails — telling agents what to do next, how to format output, and how to integrate with the repo’s conventions.

### Human CLI + OpenCode

Humans interact with and inspect agent work via a CLI tool (this repo’s `wafi` command). That CLI is designed to integrate with **OpenCode**, so humans can drive the same agent workflows directly through a consistent interface.

## Features

- no features implemented yet, it's just the CLI scaffold

## Install

From the repo root:

```bash
npm install
npm run build
```

This installs dependencies and builds the `wafi` entrypoint to `dist/index.js`. For local dev without build, you can run `npm run start` (tsx).

### Global Install (npm link)

After `npm run build`, run `npm link` to make the `wafi` command available globally. This symlinks `dist/index.js` into your npm global bin directory.

**If you encounter permission errors**, configure a user-writable npm prefix:

```bash
npm config set prefix "$HOME/.npm-global"
mkdir -p "$HOME/.npm-global/bin"
```

Then ensure `~/.npm-global/bin` is on your PATH. Add this line to your shell RC file (`~/.bashrc`, `~/.bash_profile`, or `~/.zshrc`):

```bash
export PATH="$HOME/.npm-global/bin:$PATH"
```

Then source it (for bash: `source ~/.bashrc`) and run `npm link` again.

## Usage

- Help: `node dist/index.js --help` (or after linking via `npm link`, just `wafi --help`)
- PRD stub (human output):
  ```bash
  wafi prd --out /tmp/stub.md
  ```
- PRD stub (JSON output):
  ```bash
  wafi prd --out /tmp/stub.md --json
  ```
- Verbose logging: add `--verbose` (writes debug to stderr).

## Development

- Issue tracking: this repo uses **Beads** (`bd`) for all work tracking. See [steveyegge/beads](https://github.com/steveyegge/beads)
- Scheduling: this repo uses **beads-viewer** (`bv`) to schedule and prioritize work using dependency graph insights. See [Dicklesworthstone/beads_viewer](https://github.com/Dicklesworthstone/beads_viewer)
- Docs: user documentation lives in [`docs`](docs)
- Docs: developer-focused documentation lives in [`docs/dev`](docs/dev)
- Agent CLI: recommended tool is **OpenCode** for agent-driven workflows. See [opencode-ai/opencode](https://github.com/opencode-ai/opencode)

## Testing

Build then run tests:

```bash
npm run build
npm test
```

The tests cover root help, subcommand help, missing `--out` usage error, stub write, and JSON output.

Commit message:

Add an Approach section to README: document OpenCode slash commands

README.md, after:

# WAFI

WAFI is a repo-first workflow tool intended to help humans make sense of the jumble that “vibe coding” produces.

WAFI is not really an acronym:

- `W` / `F`: Workflow
- `A` / `I`: Alien Intelligence (NOT Artificial Intelligence)

The fact that it’s jumbled into `WAFI` is the point. It also nods affectionately at the nautical acronym, WAIF ("Wind Assisted Freaking Idiot"), a tongue-in-cheek term used by sailors for someone relying too much on wind power - here pointing at humans or agents relying too much on one another.

## Approach

This is an experimental project — expect rapid change. This section is intended to stay current as the workflow, tooling, and conventions morph.

### AI-Assisted Development

WAFI is designed around “agent + human” collaboration: agents propose changes, run constrained tasks, and keep a high-signal paper trail in the repo; humans review, steer, and ship.

For the detailed workflow (including how we structure agent work, track progress, and validate changes), see [`docs/dev/Workflow.md`](docs/dev/Workflow.md).

### Agent Personas + Guided Commands

We provide multiple agent personas intended to drive different development phases (exploration, implementation, review, release, etc.). Alongside that, we provide workflow-oriented commands that act as guardrails — telling agents what to do next, how to format output, and how to integrate with the repo’s conventions.

### Human CLI + OpenCode

Humans interact with and inspect agent work via a CLI tool (this repo’s `wafi` command). That CLI is designed to integrate with **OpenCode**, so humans can drive the same agent workflows directly through a consistent interface. However, the use of the CLI is optional, humans can also interact with agents directly via chat or other interfaces. While this project is designed to work with the open source OpenCode the majority (if not all) of the functionality should work with other agent frameworks as well - once you wire it up correctly.

#### Slash Commands

[OpenCode Slash Commands](https://opencode.ai/docs/commands/) are a way to define short commands that guide agents in their completion of specific tasks. WAFI defines several slash commands which can be run directly or via the CLI tool (using `wafi COMMAND [ARGS]`). These commands are defined in [`.opencode/command`](.opencode/command) and include:

- [`/prd`](.opencode/command/prd.md): Creates or edits a PRD through a short interview; optionally seeds from a Beads issue id and/or a target file path, then writes the PRD in a standard Markdown outline.
- [`/design`](.opencode/command/design.md): Runs an interview + drafting loop to create or improve design notes for a single Beads issue id via `bd update --design`.
- [`/implement`](.opencode/command/implement.md): Implements a Beads issue end-to-end from an id

## WAFI CLI Features

- no features implemented yet, it's just the CLI scaffold

## Install

From the repo root:

```bash
npm install
npm run build
```

This installs dependencies and builds the `wafi` entrypoint to `dist/index.js`. For local dev without build, you can run `npm run start` (tsx).

### Global Install (npm link)

After `npm run build`, run `npm link` to make the `wafi` command available globally. This symlinks `dist/index.js` into your npm global bin directory.

**If you encounter permission errors**, configure a user-writable npm prefix:

```bash
npm config set prefix "$HOME/.npm-global"
mkdir -p "$HOME/.npm-global/bin"
```

Then ensure `~/.npm-global/bin` is on your PATH. Add this line to your shell RC file (`~/.bashrc`, `~/.bash_profile`, or `~/.zshrc`):

```bash
export PATH="$HOME/.npm-global/bin:$PATH"
```

Then source it (for bash: `source ~/.bashrc`) and run `npm link` again.

## Usage

- Help: `node dist/index.js --help` (or after linking via `npm link`, just `wafi --help`)
- PRD stub (human output):
  ```bash
  wafi prd --out /tmp/stub.md
  ```
- PRD stub (JSON output):
  ```bash
  wafi prd --out /tmp/stub.md --json
  ```
- Verbose logging: add `--verbose` (writes debug to stderr).

## Development

- Issue tracking: this repo uses **Beads** (`bd`) for all work tracking. See [steveyegge/beads](https://github.com/steveyegge/beads)
- Scheduling: this repo uses **beads-viewer** (`bv`) to schedule and prioritize work using dependency graph insights. See [Dicklesworthstone/beads_viewer](https://github.com/Dicklesworthstone/beads_viewer)
- Docs: user documentation lives in [`docs`](docs)
- Docs: developer-focused documentation lives in [`docs/dev`](docs/dev)
- Agent CLI: recommended tool is **OpenCode** for agent-driven workflows. See [opencode-ai/opencode](https://github.com/opencode-ai/opencode)

## Testing

Build then run tests:

```bash
npm run build
npm test
```

The tests cover root help, subcommand help, missing `--out` usage error, stub write, and JSON output.
